feat(foundations/variables and operators): add several examples and clarify a few points (#27624)
TheOdinProject/curriculum: foundations/javascript_basics/variables_and_operators.md

### Introduction

In the previous sections you learned how to structure webpages with HTML and style them with CSS. The next step is to make the webpage *interactive*, which is exactly what JavaScript is for.

In this section, we will focus on the fundamentals of JavaScript and how you can use it to manipulate all the various interactions between the web page and user.

### Lesson overview

This section contains a general overview of topics that you will learn in this lesson.

- Discuss the different ways you can declare variables.
- Learn how to write mathematical expressions and the basic arithmetic operators.

> - What is operator precedence and some more advanced operators.

Reviewer: I'm not sure these three bullet points sufficiently encapsulate what this lesson is about. I do not like the original either though. Can you try this again but be more comprehensive? Also, let's avoid starting these bullets with the word "what" - it just doesn't fit.

Author: I changed the wording let me know what you think of it now!

### How to run JavaScript code

> The simplest way to get started is to create an HTML file with the JavaScript code inside of it. Use the VS Code snippet <kbd>!</kbd> + <kbd>TAB</kbd> to create the basic HTML skeleton in a file on your computer somewhere. Be sure to include the `<script>` tag:

Reviewer: That paragraph about where JavaScript is run is critical. You can't just remove it.

Author: oops :eyes: 

restored it

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <title>Document</title>
</head>
<body>

  <script>
    // Your JavaScript goes here!
    console.log("Hello, World!")
  </script>

</body>
</html>
```

Save and open this file up in a web browser and then open up the browser's console:

1. Right-click on the blank webpage.
1. Click on "Inspect" or "Inspect Element" to open the Developer Tools.
1. Find and select the "Console" tab, where you should see the output of our `console.log` statement.

**Tip:** You can use ["Live Server" extension in Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ritwickdey.LiveServer) to automatically update the browser when you save your file instead of having to manually refresh the page to see any changes when you edit your code. Try edit the text to say something different!

> `console.log()` is the command to print something to the developer console in your browser. You can use this to print the results from any of the following articles and exercises to the console. We encourage you to code along with all of the examples in this and future lessons.

Reviewer: great rewrite.

Author: thanks! :smiley:

Another way to include JavaScript in a webpage is through an external script. This is very similar to linking external CSS docs to your website.

```html
<script src="javascript.js"></script>
```

JavaScript files have the extension `.js` similar to `.css` for stylesheets. External JavaScript files are used for more complex scripts.

We named our file `javascript.js` but we could have chosen any name like `my-script.js` or even no name `.js`. What is really important is the `.js` extension.

### Variables

These are the building blocks of any program. As an abstract example, let's consider a program that takes in two numbers and returns the sum of those numbers.

It could store the first number as a variable, `a` and the second number as another variable `b`. Then it would output their sum - `a + b`.

> 

Reviewer: I'm not sure starting with an example like this makes the concept less confusing. I'd take just the first sentence here, then maybe do the example after the illustration link below.

Author: Ok, so that makes sense. I've removed the example since I don't think it really fits. The example with adding two variables is unnecessary (learners may not even be fully comfortable with first concept, but we are already introducing another one?)

```

What will the `console.log` output? Try it out!

You can also re-assign variables:

```javascript
let age = 11;
console.log(age); // outputs 11 to the console

age = 54;
 
console.log(age); // what will be output now?
```

Notice the lack of `let` on line 4 - we don't need it since the variable has already been *declared* earlier and we are just re-assigning it here!

Re-assigning is cool and all, but what if we *don't* want it to happen? For example we might have a *constant* `pi` which will never change. We can accomplish this using the `const` keyword.

```javascript
const pi = 3.14;
pi = 10;

console.log(pi); // What will be output?
```

Your intuition may tell you that `3.14` will be output. Try it!

An error is thrown. It doesn't even reach the `console.log`! You may wonder why we would *want* an error in our code. Truth be told, errors are incredibly helpful at telling us what is wrong with our code and exactly where the issue is. Without them, our code would still not do what we may want it to, but it would be a major pain to try and find what's wrong!

So in summary, there are two ways to declare a variable:

- With `let`, which we can re-assign.

> - Using `const` which we **can't** re-assign and will throw an error if we try.

Reviewer: Pick one word, "with" or "using", or just omit both.

Author: I agree, it looks cleaner without those filler words

> There is also a third way - using `var`. It is the old way and should **not** be used. However, you will likely come across code which uses `var`, so it is important to know that it exists. Do not worry too much about it for now.

Reviewer: Maybe a note about how it works the same as let so they can group them in their mind.

### Numbers

Numbers are the building blocks of programming logic!  In fact, it's hard to think of any useful programming task that doesn't involve at least a little basic math... so knowing how numbers work is obviously quite important.  Luckily, it's also fairly straightforward.

> If you went to school, you will likely not find the concept too difficult to grasp. For example, the mathematical expression `(3 + 2) - 76 * (1 + 1)` is also valid JavaScript. If you put that into a `console.log`, it'll evaluate the expression and output the correct number. Try it!

Reviewer: I like this paragraph, but I don't like getting rid of those valuable resources from W3 and MDN.

Author: added them back

### Introduction

In the previous sections you learned how to structure webpages with HTML and style them with CSS. The next step is to make the webpage *interactive*, which is exactly what JavaScript is for.

In this section, we will focus on the fundamentals of JavaScript and how you can use it to manipulate all the various interactions between the web page and user.

### Lesson overview

This section contains a general overview of topics that you will learn in this lesson.

- Running JavaScript code using an HTML file and via the browser console.
- Declaring variables with `let` and `const`.

> - Performing arithmetic with numbers and variables.
> - Operator precedence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Performing number operations
- Performing string operations
- Use of logical and mathematical operators
```

### How to run JavaScript code

All JavaScript we will be writing in the majority of the Foundations course will be run via the browser. Later lessons in Foundations and the NodeJS path will show you how to run JavaScript outside of the browser environment.

Outside of these lessons, for now you should always default to running your JavaScript in the browser unless otherwise specified, otherwise you may run into unexpected errors.

> The simplest way to get started is to create an HTML file with the JavaScript code inside of it. Use the VS Code snippet <kbd>!</kbd> + <kbd>TAB</kbd> to create the basic HTML skeleton in a file on your computer somewhere. Be sure to include the `<script>` tag:

Reviewer: I'd remove the VSCode bit, let's not assume everyone is using vscode. You could mention that many code editors have keyboard shortcuts to quickly insert this template.

Author: The course explicitly teaches learners about VSCode and also at several other points explicit instructions for VSCode specifically are given. Imo it makes sense to give VSCode specific instructions here, if some people want to use other editors they can look up how to add the template there. Similar to how Odin Project only gives instructions for google chrome and not firefox/brave etc. 

Ofc that's just my 2 cents and if you feel like it would be better to not assume the code editor I'll make the necessary changes!

Reviewer: You're correct. I didn't realize we made that change.

You can also re-assign variables:

```javascript
let age = 11;
console.log(age); // outputs 11 to the console

age = 54;
 
console.log(age); // what will be output now?
```

Notice the lack of `let` on line 4 - we don't need it since the variable has already been *declared* earlier and we are just re-assigning it here!

Re-assigning is cool and all, but what if we *don't* want it to happen? For example we might have a *constant* `pi` which will never change. We can accomplish this using the `const` keyword.

```javascript
const pi = 3.14;
pi = 10;

console.log(pi); // What will be output?
```

Your intuition may tell you that `3.14` will be output. Try it!

An error is thrown. It doesn't even reach the `console.log`! You may wonder why we would *want* an error in our code. Truth be told, errors are incredibly helpful at telling us what is wrong with our code and exactly where the issue is. Without them, our code would still not do what we may want it to, but it would be a major pain to try and find what's wrong!

So in summary, there are two ways to declare a variable:

- `let`, which we can re-assign.
- `const` which we **can't** re-assign and will throw an error if we try.

> There is also a third way - using `var`. It's similar to `let`, but it is the old way and should **not** be used. However, you will likely come across code which uses `var`, so it is useful to know that it exists. Do not worry too much about it for now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is also a third way, `var`, which was the original way variables were declared in JavaScript. `var` is similar to `let` in that variables assigned this way can be reassigned, but it has other quirks that were cleared up when the language introduced `let` and `const`. By and large, it is not used anymore. However, you will likely come across code which uses `var` at some point, so it is useful to know that it exists.
```
